and you're watching aljaz a reminder of
our headlines this hour Hamas says
Fierce fighting has been taking place in
the Gaza Strip Israel's military has cut
off the road between the city and deral
Bala and Central Gaza dividing the
territory into three more than 100
Palestinians have been killed in
overnight Israeli strikes on Gaza and
this brings the death toll since
Saturday to more than
800 rescue workers in Rafa worked
through the night rescuing dozens of
people trapped under the rubble Israel's
Army has been ordering people to head
there for what it says is their own
safety let's get more on the view from
Israel now AKA Eldor joins us you're a
contributor to the Israeli newspaper
haret and you're joining us uh from Tel
Aviv so look AKA my previous guest fears
that Israel's endgame in Gaza is to
force Palestinians out of the strip and
now the Israeli paper Israel hyam
reported a few days ago and in fact it
was your paper haret that alerted me to
to this that Netanyahu asked a loyalist
a confidant for a plan to quote thin out
the population of Gaza I we can't
independently verify this this is
reporting from Israel H but what do you
make of that and does that line up with
what you're seeing currently in
Gaza uh well sir this is not a very new
idea actually uh those people from the
hardcore settlements in the West Bank
not uh just the people who uh were moved
out of Gaza uh one of their final status
settlement included the transfer of the
Palestinians both from the West Bank and
from Gaza to Sinai they believe that uh
Egypt uh will take the money and make
those people run into uh Sinai this
isn't old dream or if you like so
fantasy of the Israelis who believe that
a two-state solution can be exercised in
Sinai so there will be greater Israel
from the sea to the river and maybe a
Palestinian State uh in in Sinai that uh
from from where Israel has withdrawn uh
right after we signed the peace
agreement with Egypt but
actually uh even
netan let alone uh those uh zealots in
the in the settlements uh they don't
call the shots the uh solution of the
settlement is in the hands of the
president of the United States as you
know secretary blinkin
visited uh Israel and the the region
four times he he participates
permanently in the inner cabinets
meetings and uh I I don't think that the
Americans are even considering this kind
of a solution since uh president AI made
it clear to them and to
netan that Egypt is not going to solve
our
problems this has been a red line this
has been a red line expressed by the
Americans that they don't want to see
displacement of the Palestinian
population you also point out that the
the Egyptians have said categorically no
Palestinians shouldn't be displaced but
so you mentioned that you say the
solution lies actually with the US
president do you feel right now that the
Israeli War cabinet is listening to the
Americans uh yes and not only because of
uh the very fact that
America is holding the uh veto option
the UN if not for the UN I believe that
the security Council would um already
take uh maybe even sanctions against
Israel for committing war crimes and
since it's obviously that the United
States will not allow this the Security
Council is very quiet the other thing is
that uh the Americans are keep flying
Israel with uh those uh heavy bombs and
uh other ammunition that comes on a
daily basis to Israel so uh the United
States I think never had so much such a
big leverage on Israel in the last 50
years since the yumo war but what do you
see happening on the ground what do you
see happening on the ground that gives
you a sense that Israel is listening
because we're reporting that 8 00
Palestinians have been killed in the
last in the last few days it doesn't
seem like Israel is being more careful
uh to mitigate Palestinian civilian
losses as the US has asked them to
do yeah um I I think that uh Israel is
running out of time the the question and
now we go back to domestic politics in
the United States President Biden has to
look at his uh at the polls and see what
is the mood in the in his own
constituency among Democrats and so far
they are willing to give Israel more
time um I'm afraid that uh most of them
are not watching El jazer so they don't
really as well as the Israeli public and
uh since Israeli journalists are not
allowed into Gaza what they get from the
Israeli media and from the American
Media is footage about uh the hostages
coming back about and and this is very
important don't mean don't get me wrong
uh harassment uh and uh what the United
States really wants is to get eight to
nine American uh
hostages and uh uh among them Israeli
soldiers who have dual citizenship dual
passports there is a lot of PR now on
the Israeli government on the uh
hostages more than to stop the war the
the Israeli mood is since the as your
reporter just mentioned because of those
stories horrible stories about sexual
harassments and torture and uh dividing
families the pressure on the government
is even to stop the war and uh to go
back back to the negotiation table and
agree on a longer truce to allow a
reunification of families to get the
women out and the old men so uh I think
that what we're going to see the next
few days is more
Israeli uh
people okay yeah marching against the
government okay AKA Eldar contributor to
the Israeli newspaper RS pleasure to
have you on the show this hour thank you
very
much thank you sir